[Music]
but
does everyone have the copy of 37
practices little book so we need one
over here if you do not have if you need
one raise up your hand I think someone
will be passing them out
[Music]
so for opening prayers will recite the
37 practices of the Bodhisattva starting
on page 2
none more Lukesh waria while seeing that
all phenomena neither come nor go you
strive solely for the sake of all beings
supreme guru and protectors generating
at all times i respectfully pay homage
to you with my body speech and mind the
perfect buddha's source of all benefit
and happiness arise from having
accomplished the true dharma since that
depends on knowing the practices I shall
explain the way of Bodhisattvas having
now gained this great ship of freedom
and fortune so difficult to find in
order to free yourself and others from
the ocean of cyclic existence
listen reflect and meditate day and
night without distraction this is the
way of a bodhisattva attachment to loved
ones churns like water hatred for
enemies rages like fire in the darkness
of ignorance one forgets what to adopt
and what to avoid abandon your homeland
this is the way of a bodhisattva when
negative places are abandoned disturbing
emotions will gradually decline without
distractions attention to virtue
naturally grows when the mind becomes
clear certainty in the dharma arises
live alone in seclusion this is the way
of a bodhisattva family and long-time
companions were apart from each other
possessions gained without
we'll be left behind consciousness a
guess we'll leave the guesthouse of the
body let go of all worldly concerns this
is the way of a bodhisattva in bad
company for three poisons grow stronger
and the activities of learning
reflecting and meditating decline and
love and compassion are lost give up
such companions this is the way of a
bodhisattva when one follows a true
spiritual friend falls will dissolve and
good qualities will grow like the waxing
moon consider this friend more dear than
your own body this is the way of a
bodhisattva who can worldly gods
themselves imprisoned in samsara protect
therefore seek refuge in the three
jewels the undeceiving source of refuge
this is the wave of bodhisattva the
Buddha taught that all the unbearable
suffering of the lower realms is caused
by wrongdoing therefore never act
wrongly even at the cost of your life
this is the way of a bodhisattva like a
dewdrop on a blade of grass the
happiness of the three worlds vanishes
in but an instant strive for the supreme
state of never changing
this is the way of a bodhisattva when
mothers who have loved you since
beginningless time are suffering what
good is your own happiness
therefore give rise to bodhichitta in
order to liberate infinite sentient
beings this is the way of a bodhisattva
all suffering without exception comes
from seeking your own happiness the
perfect buddhas are born from the
altruistic mind they are for truly
exchange your own happiness for the
suffering of others this is the way of a
bodhisattva even if someone driven by
great desire steals all your wealth or
lets others steal it dedicate to them
your body possessions and all virtues of
the three times this is the way of a
bodhisattva at all even if someone cuts
off your head when you haven't done
anything wrong take all their negative
deeds upon yourself through the power of
compassion this is the way of the
Bodhisattva even if others slander you
throughout a billion worlds in return
speak with a loving mind of their good
qualities this is the way of a
bodhisattva
even if someone exposes your hidden
faults and insults you in front of
others view that person as a teacher and
bow with respect this is the way of a
bodhisattva even if someone you have
cared for as dearly as your own child
regards you as an enemy love that person
even more as a mother would her ailing
child this is the way
even if someone of equal or lower status
driven by pride treats you with testing
respectfully placed them on your crown
as your teacher this is the way of a
bodhisattva though you may be
impoverished always disparaged gribbit
by diseased and tormented by spirits
never lose courage but take on the
misdeeds in the pain of all beings this
is the way of a bodhisattva though you
may be famous and revered by many and
our is rich as the wealth of God himself
having seen that worldly fortune is
without essence do not be proud this is
the way for Bodhisattva if the enemy
your own anger is not tamed subduing
outer enemies will only make them
increase therefore subdue your own mind
with an army of love and compassion this
is the way of a bodhisattva sensory
pleasures are like salt water the more
you drink the greater your thirst
abandon at once all things that give
rise to clinging attachment this is the
way of a bodhisattva the way things
appear is your own mind mind itself
primordial ii transcends fabricated
extremes knowing just this do not create
concepts of subject and object this is
the way of a bodhisattva when you come
across things that are trapped you like
beautiful rainbows in summer time do not
regard
as real and abandoned clinging
attachment this is the way of a
bodhisattva all suffering is like the
death of your child in a dream how
exhausting it is to hold illusory
appearances as real they are for when
you meet with difficult circumstances
see them as illusory this is the way of
a bodhisattva when even one's body must
be given up when aspiring for
enlightenment what need is there to
mention material things there for
practice generosity without hope of
reward or karmic results this is the way
of a bodhisattva if you lack moral
discipline you cannot accomplish even
your own purpose so wanting to achieve
the purpose of others is truly absurd
therefore protect your discipline
without concern for worldly existence
this is the way of a bodhisattva for
Bodhisattvas who desire a wealth of
virtue all harm is like a precious
treasure therefore without hostility be
patient with everyone this is the way of
a bodhisattva even heroes or solitary
realizers who accomplish only their own
purpose strive is if putting out a fire
on their head seeing this practice with
diligence the source of good qualities
for the sake of all beings this is the
way of a bodhisattva disturbing emotions
are destroyed by insight grounded in
calm abiding knowing this cultivate
meditative concentration that purely
transcends the four formless absorptions
this is the way of a bodhisattva without
wisdom the other five perfections alone
are not enough to reach complete
enlightenment
thus combined with skillful means
develop the wisdom that does not
distinguish among the three spheres this
is the way of a bodhisattva
unless you examine your own confused
ideas you might look like a practitioner
but not be acting like one therefore
always examine yourself and abandon
confusion this is the way for
Bodhisattva if you are driven by
disturbing emotions and talk about
another Bodhisattvas fault it is
absolutely to your own detriment so
don't mention the faults of those who
have entered the great vehicle this is
the way of reduce our concern for gain
and respect causes conflict and to
decline in the activities of learning
reflecting and meditating so abandon
attachment to your circle of friends
relations and benefactors this is the
way of a bodhisattva perish words
disturb others minds and us diminish the
practice of a bodhisattva
therefore abandon harsh speech which is
unpleasant to others this is the way of
a bodhisattva
when disturbing emotions become habitual
it is difficult to reverse them with
antidotes thus the soldier of
mindfulness wheels the antidotes as
weapons and destroys to serving emotions
such as attachment the moment they start
to arise this is the way of a
bodhisattva
in brief whatever you are and whatever
you are doing always examine the state
of your mind have to accomplish the
purpose of others through constant
mindfulness and awareness this is the
way of a bodhisattva with the wisdom of
threefold purity dedicate all the virtue
gained from having made such effort
toward enlightenment dedicated to clear
away the suffering of infinite beings
this is the way of a bodhisattva in
accordance with the words of the holy
ones regarding the meaning of the sutras
Tundras and their commentaries we have
written these thirty seven verses on the
way of a bodhisattva for those who wish
to train on the Bodhisattvas path this
composition will not be admired by the
learning because my intellect is poor
and my education is limited however I
have followed the sutras in the words of
the Holy Ones so I believe these ways of
a bodhisattva are not mistaken still
because the vast teeth of a bodhisattva
are difficult to grasp by simple-minded
beings like myself I beg forgiveness of
the Holy Ones for the mass of my errors
such as contradictions in
inconsistencies by the virtue are
arising from this may all beings give
rise to relative and
bodhichitta and thereby become like the
protectors
in the extremes of existence of the
question is don't walk around there only
he around
Susan's Hodgins Angela you're awesome
children so much energy naturally or
your hero's wasn't is although you know
now part regions of the
after the young Carson orders are
dodging for such a rough ride the
general sasural majority of adult age of
the young market after the upper
tutorial my the analogy the audience for
dear money transfers over comma or to
complete without the use of the modern
media numbers adjutant hej numbers are
given port of charges
no habla no German depe sanitation is a
portal a de da da da da da da da roca
change in contagious composure de de da
de poder glossaries send a convoy
Nancy editable también tiene mucho
summit road endear two-party tyranny
transition board avocado horizontally
gelatin le amor de la reina sofia not
supported so total Ateneo de la mera
there is drama they have a viral
particle in charge of try to charge your
heads
hi my friends today now again we have
teachings and then Buddha Dharma
teachings are generally extremely
precious the Buddhist words are
extremely precious but then me being the
one who is explaining these teachings I
am NOT someone that has a lot of
learning or greater qualities at all and
I might not be able to express these
teachings so eloquently however I do
have some understanding under 37
bodhisattva practices and based on this
understanding i can see that the
thirty-seven bodhisattva practices are
the actual heart essence of the Dharma
and actually if you look at these
practices again and again you will see
that actually it does not only pertain
to the Buddhist teachings but any
religion any so-called religion in this
world really because once you have a
religion the goal is to bring about the
peace and the happiness in the minds of
beings then responsibility of the
mundane tradition is to develop the
outer world that is the well-being of
the people and them their wealth and
science and so forth and the purpose of
the religion there and specifically the
Buddhist religion is to bring about and
peace and happiness in the mind and to
pacify suffering and the goal this goal
of all religions is one and the same
that is the essence really of all
religions 237 practices really are the
essence of all religion because the
essence of religion actually is love and
compassion and loving-kindness and that
is the antidote to suffering and so in
that the thirty-seven practices are
really unique
and they are very meaningful for people
like myself who do not have a lot of
learning and great qualities and who are
not so intelligent but who do have a lot
of faith and so to those individuals
these teachings are particularly
precious Aloha shalini lions
inconveniences charitable or attentively
supported or deteriorate dances of here
detective shall kill the human ecology
salon originally so we proceeded to buy
on a Yamaha the relativist reality la
medicina Buena the literature
preparedness of the primal multiple
star-lord wattage or China volatile or
resistive voltage or nitrogen till
tomorrow today German ambassador power
ultimately from Hammacher Schlemmer age
the University of Surrey note the true
knowledge innumerable Georgetown
University College Sarge ourselves
rather originally not suitable my
akhenaten it to you soldier sergeant
secretary tolerate only to subdue
sergeant
Santos intro portes de puta
Martha's identity data that you're in
touch with young Santos and aromatic on
your marriage to Luigi darker sort of
supermodel some you may have heard some
tensor material manager do something
charitable they're in our quarterly
income jeolla-do out there is just the
opportunity they are rejected but
Emmanuel something very sorry toxicology
Santos and a makiwara Kirito Rajaraja
Kamath of a pristine pro-competitive a
three-day Magni Testament language
easily so totally within the parity law
religion so much attention in terms of
the you know sub-query like avocado
transition Bartolome de las llamas
avocado menudo we just wanna modern into
chamber you're a theater district in New
Rochelle Atari said you see your
national native a local Harbor some
operated or succession anarchic evaluate
and so it has been a few years that I've
from the forum since I've left Paton
came to outside and in these years even
though I do not have a lot of learning
and many great qualities
there are many disciples who love me
very much and who trust me very much and
now especially for their sake I have
actually brought this brief verse in the
very beginning of the 37 Bodhisattva
practices which begins with as you have
been my parents I love you and so forth
and I'm so every my disciples like to
come and with receive the teachings and
that is because there is a bond of love
so then if the Muslim the Lama who gives
the instructions loves the disciples and
the disciples really love that lamont
have devotion and faith in those words
then those words actually have a very
special power for that disciple for this
reason it is just like like a light
energy or like electricity
it becomes very powerful force and that
comes from this relationship of love and
so because I love you all very much I've
written these words here added these
words the first worst whom the little
booklet and it begins with as you have
been my parents and it is really true if
you understand the Buddhist view then
you know that there is not a single
being who has not been your parents and
this is how I love all sentient beings
just like that and and then here it says
and because and to those who love me I
wish to give something that is like my
own heart and so because I know that you
also love me I want to give you
something which is just like my own
heart and the heart really is body
Cheeta and what is bodhichitta actually
it is not just something that I possess
but all the buddhas after three times
possess bodhichitta they have all halted
in their precious jewel of bodhichitta
all of the buddhas that have appeared in
the past and who are still to appear in
a future all the present buddhists speak
of bodhichitta and throughout the four
major Buddhist lineages there is no one
who doesn't speak about bodhichitta and
in fact even in other religions they
might not call it bodhichitta
but there is really no religion who
wouldn't consider love as most important
it's important for everyone even an
animal for example the more love you
have the more happiness you will
experience so that is why we say may all
sentient beings have happiness and the
causes of happiness and the only an
unmistakable as is love and that is why
it is the heart of all the Buddha's
after three times the precious
bodhichitta and the teachings are a
method to give rise to bodhichitta first
where it has not yet arisen and that
refers to the teachings on the four
thoughts that turn the mind and then
secondly and the method for bodhichitta
to not decline where it has arisen and
that refers to the practices of the six
paramitas and then thirdly to further
increase this bodhichitta that refers to
the teachings on the twofold truth so
personally I find having gained an
understanding of these teachings they
really have become like a precious to do
all to me something that I've never
actually found before or something very
special and now when when that jewel of
bodhichitta is prize
then you just naturally want to listen
to any Dharma teaching even if you don't
understand everything that's being said
still you want to listen to those
teachings for example often His Holiness
Adama gives extensive teachings or other
great lineage masters like newborn Bush
and so forth they give extensive
teachings and also a personally feel
even if I cannot understand each and
every world still wants to listen to it
and that is because of their have their
body Cheatham and also those of you who
want to listen to those teachings it is
due to a great merit it is a sign that
you possess great wisdom and that you
have an understanding of past and future
lives and karma caused an effect so in
any case these are those few words that
I added to the beginning of the booklet
please away trance or the Hamasaki on a
determinant of a so in control donut in
sociology degree robbery
Johnny Giavotella th are totally alayka
ahsana people miss or they may purchase
ASO tourism be a patron so Solomon Altos
de origen vs hora de German our own a
pet eh-eh-eh-eh-eh da da da da da da da
Marco subtle total meaning easily
committed to some changes or news of
Jesus was over some teeth of Raja some
zeda little talkative
the
de su de regime ba da serra de hoc or
techo para otro lado Sanjay Sanjay
seaboard
para todo Regina says no more okay for a
yard llama total genome or atados
improver som Sarovar Osama salamati de
Janeiro manga da de da ba da da da Matta
college-age media Tarantino
cheerio sunny Santa Croce votre lo tiene
cosas en topology limited on manticores
de su de la muchacha que entran Deva
Katta today's potato marriage Faisal
Lanin Son Tay Zonday nada Toto Toto
Harry Potter Harmon
so today's been a play viola yeah d
hachi-noji dachi noche de la razón que
tiempo de jure China oh la razón que
tiempo de de trabajo de tormenta garcía
Omar de Sade car engine regenerate a
system
Samata Rahim preached court worst roger
de santis Mazzone teacher Tony ceccacci
dead so disabled connector Santiago so
complete ruin conversations Oh san te
amo te da a partial derivative in
America called a sentinel cattle the
harvester trauma neva 12 medical never
neutral subordinate or any general
apparent eligible reporter the Sahara
dog monopoly business knowledge no
matter
say that now but just holler medic growl
immediately know the lordy
there's a service they targeted me
neither
some Jesse your avatar sano-sama thought
certainly the reality that ah mmm
wrongly president from their heads
and so because these practices are so
precious wherever I have gone all these
countries I'm insisted that these 37
practices will to be translated into the
respective languages of whichever
country I visited and actually I would
even say that if you would not be able
to if you wouldn't translate the
thirty-seven practices into your
languages then I wouldn't even go there
because then I would feel that it is
just empty me go India in itself is just
empty because then if I wouldn't be able
to place these 37 practices into their
hands me just going there would be in a
way a waste I will just eat people's
food and take all of their money and
then in the end I'm Karma's unfailing
and that actually becomes really a cause
for truly taking birth in the lower
realms without liberation because they
sacrifice all their time and effort to
make those events and to join the events
for example most events are held on a
weekend on Saturday and Sunday and the
people take off and actually down there
on their free time they come to the
teachings and if I will just waste their
time and would not be able to put those
place those 37 practices into their
hands then I haven't made the best use
of their time so as long I felt that as
long as I'm able to place these
practices into their hands my
responsibility is fulfilled and then of
course it's up to them whether or not
they actually I'm studying practice
those 37 practices but I feel that I
have really fulfilled my mission so that
is why I would really only go if they
would also translate the thirty-seven
practices into their languages and so
the heart what is my heart that's
mentioned here in the beginning my heart
is really not my physical heart it's
really not what
precious it is just made out out of
material substance what's the real heart
the real heart is love and that love my
own love and the loss of all the
Buddha's and even the love of just the
tiniest animal is still the same there's
just a difference in how vast it is and
the stronger it is the more happiness
one will experience in this and future
lives so it's just a question of how
vast it is how big it is and the
Buddha's love is a vast love for example
Chenrezig slough and so therefore here
in the beginning it begins with an
homage to Chenrezig namu Lokesh Varia
so an homage to turn razeq and so that
order of the Tibetan is a little
different so it says supreme guru and
protector Chenrezig at all times I
respectfully pay homage so why is it
that we that we put together here the
root core oh and Chenrezig the root
chorim is a human being and today for
example you have offered a long life
ceremony and you made prayers for my
long life and trust if I will stay a
year or two more longer and so on you
would cry and you would pray and I know
that this is your sincere intention but
then from the past Buddhist all the
borders after three times the Buddha
Shakyamuni himself showed us that that
but the body of the spiritual teacher
the GU room is not permanent they have
all left their bodies in this world but
then what remains and what is more
precious than the physical body is the
gurus teachings the speech and the mind
the speech in the mind are actually
indivisible so if again
a wise person would look at me and I see
and explain who is God to rhumble Cham
now is it
physical Foreman sickness is discard to
membership or is it 237 Bodhisattva
practices the wise person would know
that Scot remember Jim is a 30-7
bodhisattva practices so all of those
friends of mine who love me very much if
you love me please recognize this to be
who I really am the thirty-seven
practices because the Buddha himself had
said the mind is what's most important
and we need to recognize that the
essence of all in the Buddhist words is
this love the love that we have between
us between us companions and the Dharma
is just a way to developed improve our
increase our love and so Chenrezig is
mentioned here because who is tuned
Rezac he is actually he represents great
love and so someone like him it says
here sees that while seeing that all
phenomena neither come nor go and so i'm
Chenrezig with great love due to great
love self-grasping has diminished and
when there is no more self-grasping then
one realizes the indivisibility of self
and atom that the mind is fast like
space beyond coming and going and for
this reason i'm Chenrezig always looks
upon us there's never a time where he
doesn't look upon us therefore we say
throughout the six periods of day and
night to represent that we also have
added this image of tinactin Razik here
and actually this particular place is
also a holy site of chen rizk we can see
for example on our rocks and so on there
are the eyes of Chenrezig and that's
just an outer sign that's an outer sign
that this place is a holy site of tran
Razik and an inner sign that
site is Chenrezig splays is the
disciples who come here they come here
no madam the heart no matter how hard it
is
they are not afraid of the heat they're
not afraid of the cold they come here
and they experience peace and happiness
and that's a sign that this is a holy
site of tuna Rezac so there are many
signs outer inner and secret that this
place is Chenrezig a place of loving
kindness and compassion
Robert only children save us all
repository no calatrava's young tomorrow
is part of sheriff dr. Don Yeomans
children's choir of Charlton general
manager control the energy charged up
with the wagon that in Reverse depart a
new collagen total release the
possibilities the table a $7 a day John
Doe the ultimate authority or the
cheapest jobs or at what some of our
teachers yeah that watch watch watch
injunction always opportunity within
only two possible attorney wrong Reba
the Deborah system will determine it was
a squadron thousandth of a percent
energy nor the support all optional is
not reported ELISA
but Jacques little is unity on initial
table as laser report of charge also
provide a net worth of the new wardrobe
to positively diabolical me so the
ordered and it and
Paco de medicina para be so conscious
artists pours a social assassin a
poacher's important SEMA show till
yesterday
chacha-chacha-chacha-chow t Haqqanis de
trabajo por hora nirupama Rajeev at the
Harbor the Sun important society
definitely fashion started in Dubai in
searchable productive are arranged with
the body
Johanna problem a photo a knowledgeable
man her husband sir dodging intercepting
sentiment of the holder the departures
are checked will mention such as ha oh
so to censorship RS divided distribution
huge indiscernible sobs - mumble mumble
yokai aura essence artery oh that didn't
know what to do Harper - mr. Howard the
new body may result it is he will not
really or such a struggle not something
that is rewarded research of the
maturity top
charger the return proton which of the
stones ever something practicing sahaja
yogi trooper local trucker there is how
you could be returned or function the
recipients of the phone using of
astrobiology
then it says while seeing that all
phenomena neither come nor comb you
strife solely for the sake of all beings
so who is what is it that is beyond
coming and going for a space there is no
coming and going but clouds come and go
the ocean doesn't come and go but the
ice blocks floating on the ocean come
and go there's a big and small many ice
blocks who are tossed around in the
ocean who come and go around in the
ocean who go in circles the ultimate
reality is legs space or like the ocean
there is a quote by the poem that comes
from the great liberation sutram where
he explains the mind of a Mahayana
practitioner and actually if you just
look at that so personally when I was
very young as a boy when I looked at
that actually an understanding really
arose in me
just through that quote and it says the
mind of a Mahayana the Mahayana mind is
like a vast ocean and or a great vehicle
is like a vast ocean and the mind of
someone of the lesser vehicle is like
the water that collects in the footprint
of a cow much less and when I just saw
this quote when I was young I really
thought this is really how it must be
this is how a Mahayana mind must be like
an ocean
so this ocean of the Mahayana mind is
beyond coming and going beyond birth and
death that's the ultimate truth and then
we are always coming and going we can't
we have no choice but to come and go
all the time because we have created
this body this human body and then there
is animals that we can also seem and
then there's many beings that we cannot
seem and they all come and go but what
is it actually that comes and goes it is
actually our thoughts they always go so
thoughts arise and based on these
thoughts we accumulate karma so thoughts
accumulate karma and then this Khammam
is what then produces this body that we
find ourselves in so it really begins
with a dualistic perception and due to
that dualistic rasping we create karma
and that leads to the appearance of the
six realms of samsara this is also
explained in the budget Kanaya practice
and where it basically says the six
realms of samsara are the six afflictive
emotions and the six afflictive emotions
of all beings is one and the same
in fact the self this perception of self
of all beings is one and the same so in
brief it all comes from self grasping
and the afflictive emotions the six
realms of samsara arise from that
Milarepa had said actually the
characteristics of samsara is that it is
without devoid of any basis of root so
it seems to us however that there is
some basis of root of samsara and who
creates that it is created by our
thoughts this is this thinking mind
enters into a perception that holds
everything that appears to be real and
labels everything with
various concept concept labels and with
that conceptual mind we then accumulate
common experience this life which is
like the dream of a single night so
that's the difference between coming and
going or or not now this is in brief how
it is explained from the perspective of
the twofold truth their relative and the
ultimate and now if you were to ask
which one of these two truth is most
important the answer is it is the
relative truth because if you do not
have a very good knowledge of the
relative truth you cannot actually
realize the ultimate truth and so for
example if you first try to understand
the ultimate truth you might understand
that self and other do not inherently
exist those intelligent ones might
understand all of that but then still
you have your Khammam and your habitual
imprints you still this knowledge alone
has not melted your ice block so you
need to melt the ice block first through
the relative trick which is
understanding the preciousness of love
the preciousness of bodhichitta nor
chipton Songun also had said to mean the
preliminary practices are more profound
than the main part practices so many
people complete their Mundra their
preliminaries many hundreds and
thousands of accumulations but what's
the root of all preliminary practices it
is to understand the fault of
self-grasping and the afflictive
emotions to understand that these are
the very root of all suffering that all
suffering is created by these afflictive
emotions so in the beginning we must
purify cleanse our mind with an ultra
mind so gradually then that becomes that
eliminates this concept of self and
other so basically we have to purify our
mind with love this is what purifies the
mind in those foundational practices of
the preliminaries so those are all
practices only which are a method to
develop love only so this is the meaning
of it is not coming and going and all
the Buddha's of the three times they
continue to appear for this reason so
first from the Dharmakaya nation appears
the sambhogakaya and from that appears
the near manikyam and then those two
form emanations then act for the benefit
of all sentient beings continuously day
and night so there is never a time where
they are not looking upon us salute also
Auto Services petrova cha cha cha cha RA
cha cha cha cha da da da da war so
delatour's Evo so Jeremy semi sanitary
Chango more tea party no Saddam muchacha
de vocês metatron sagittal elbow
Monsanto Gina template odubajo Zotero ba
ba-da-da ba-da-da ba-da-da ba-da-da
ba-da-da chain commodity Batiatus some
tourists humor some register its our
College the same awesome creation of the
room is suddenly so simply salsa's
modern marriages touches not the truth
on top of it
la medicina affordable a shaman or
professional today Italy Maharaja's
Sonata da da da da da da da da la da da
da ba da da da da mucho de arenado
possibilities Eduardo's Center prelate
action cannot even say vamos a hacer la
tarea Jerusalem Azusa Piazza del sur la
palma de Universidad de palma GP running
good job Jenn run in the park over there
in two subjects low volume mm OH
knowledge attest other possible chance
of Awesome
well then it says I respectfully pay
homage to you with my body speech and
mind so now when you read this am paying
homage or offering prostration you might
think that now and probably just needs
to prostrate so there is no we think
that I need to say some refuge prayers
and offers a physical prostration but it
says here the three doors of body speech
and mind and so of those three doors
their mind is most important and so to
be respectful respectfully paying homage
therefore really means to give rise to
sincere faith and devotion to those
higher beings and we can seem for
example when you
develop pure faith and devotion then
just immediately evil join your palms
and a real feeling arises your move to
tears and so forth or when you see a
sentient being then you would feel a
sincere feeling of love and compassion
and therefore you would do something to
help them or to be generous or to
practice patience all of these would
happen naturally so if the mind is
respectful in this way then the body and
the speech will naturally begin to move
they are moved by that kind of mind and
so to cultivate such a faith in the
higher beings like the girls that is the
most supreme frustration and also to
cultivate such love and compassion for
sentient beings is the most supreme
prostration so of the frustration of
body speech and mind therefore the mind
is most important and it means to to be
respectful with your mind really means
to never separate from a mind of love
for all sentient beings and to not allow
that to be come interrupted by thoughts
of anger and jealousy in particular
between friends and also between
disciples and their teachers and so
forth
when we allow these thoughts of anger
and jealousy to live in our mind and we
might develop a wrong view or doubts
regarding our teacher and then we
slander that teacher and so forth and so
this is what that happens we act out
when thoughts of anger and jealousy
arise within us then we actually begin
to accumulate karma so this is
disrespect so this is what must not
remain within our mind those thoughts of
anger and jealousy is this is the
disrespect the opposite of respectfully
paying homage with these thoughts these
thoughts arise from a mind of
self-grasping
and the very moment they begin to arise
the mere arising of a part of anger
jealousy is disrespectful in itself so
we have to be sincere in our action also
also referring to myself often being not
just um join our palms into a kind of a
bow down to a teacher who comes in and
so on but maybe we don't really feel
anything maybe we don't feel like any
kind of special feeling of devotion and
faith so that's also not necessarily
respect respect comes from within your
your mind it's a real feeling of faith
and devotion that is respect and it is a
real feeling an actual feeling of
compassion for sentient beings so that
itself is respect and from this mind of
faith and compassion just naturally you
will do things that benefit others and
you will not do things that harm others
that happens naturally so the most
important states of mind respectful
states of mind when love arises and
patience arises within yourself so this
is what we need to understand with being
respectful and this is really actually
the core of all Dharma practice largely
in part of the Raza Shirazi tableaux
bodies resonantly
Sangeeta very pretty University
Cambridge circus resurgence relate sorry
Korea's rhetoric is the source of
Cervantes knowledge not everybody the
repertory rage the Hakkasan
the triangle needs a mother and not
chitara
the haka Sultan reversal charge molarity
is already resistant Roger trans
umbrella everybody misses opportunities
public services report in childbirth
this Santa's Village People to People
Tamara towers the son Jason really
totally
Tata from the region of the truck nearly
naked era Elizabeth wasn't until
somebody nicotine is such a problem
psychometry balcony the road she's
maternity dodging evil
heartfully
suffered significant additional
authorities the governor Holcomb
some days body
senators are dying by rajim bismillah
bismillah thrown on couch water terraces
same age
dolorous
[Music]
very foolish technical people thought of
the other larger we unfortunately our
society of authority collison zealously
sunny lessons telethon chief Todd - Todd
Weiler the Steve McQueen
not really knowledge in their total
content on our gear counselor converged
on this image the territory just
immaturity
daba daba daba drama so just in a place
at the table read the summary today
tourists enter the industry matures own
let it be much industry education
establish a Chilean Atacama geography or
their energy a la village
then it says the perfect Buddhist source
of all benefit and happiness arise from
having accomplished the true Dharma so
the source of all benefit and happiness
it is the Dharma is the temporary
benefit and ultimate happiness right now
we learned that from the time when the
first takes the refuge found what is the
the Buddha he is the source of all
benefit and happiness this is the
Buddhist teachings the precious
teachings of the Buddha and who had
created them where do they come from
they come from the Buddha and how did he
bring those teachings about they are
brought about they are like a products
them of bodhichitta and this is that
what the teachings are so what's the
temporary benefit it is that you
understand karma and when you understand
the Karma even if you're not able to do
any other practice if you only
understand the Buddhist view of karma
then as milarepa had said just naturally
that ten virtues these will arise
naturally and the ten non-virtuous deeds
will become purified into the natural
state are just naturally so that comes
from only understanding karma if you
understand karma you will you will keep
all modes of conduct all rules of
conduct ethical discipline just
naturally naturally you will get along
with the people around you in your
community even in a worldly sense so
such a person who understands that view
of karma will therefore be able to
sustain stable and lasting loving
relations with their companions they
will be able to be companions for a long
time and this great stability so that's
the temporary benefit people will be
loving and kind
each other and they will be harmonious
and there will be no arguing and
fighting and so on so that's temporary
and then there is an ultimate benefit so
the temporary benefit is first attaining
birth in the three higher realms
continuously and that mainly comes from
the practices of generosity ethical
discipline and patience and then
ultimately a screw sustaining love and
compassion the ultimate happiness is to
attain the state of Buddhahood and that
state of Buddhahood is a state were all
self-cherishing concepts that self
charging mind has completely been
exhausted the confusion the confused
confused thoughts perceiving itself have
all collapsed and you realize that self
and other are actually indivisible Nandu
all that is realized because you have
cultivated immeasurable love through
immeasurable love and the mind is
realized as space like by nation and
that is when you realize the non dual
nature of self and other so that is a
budem a Buddha is a being whose mind is
realized has has realized the mind like
space and who has realized the
indivisibility of self and other so when
one realizes non-duality m-- one has
realized the ultimate view but then
until then there is a duality and we
perceive we see different bodies there
is a duality in terms of form but then
such a person was realized that we will
see that even though many different
forms appear there is no duality within
the mind at all and someone who realizes
that can lets go of all these thoughts
and afflictive emotions when they arise
they are seen just like
way from Wharram to someone who has
really understood the Buddhist view has
really understood common someone who
doesn't understand karma well and might
focus on the ultimate truth still has
not melted their ice block and they will
keep going in circles and constantly
those ice blocks will bump into each
other and there will be conflict and the
fault of that is not truly understanding
karma cause-and-effect so that's the
temporary benefit and the ultimate
happiness
so the temporary benefit is to attain
birth in the higher realms and the
ultimate happiness is to attain a state
of enlightenment so where does this
state come from it comes from the Buddha
and the Buddha taught the way there by
teaching the Dharma so there's basically
do two kind of dharmas or two kind of
traditions there is the tradition of the
Dharma of the worldly beings the mundane
Dharma's are the same and then there is
theme the whole name Dharma and the holy
Dharma that we practice that is the
cause of the temporary benefit and the
ultimate happiness so there is a
temporary and an ultimate benefit and
now when we follow the broadly demora
worldly ways in a worldly in our worldly
ways we strive after pleasure and
well-being money and science develops in
this world and so forth but all of these
endeavors are only for this life and now
the term of worldly in Tibetan is
chicken so cheek also has to do with
this integration this world is subject
to this integration everything is
impermanent all of our experiences of
happiness and suffering are impermanent
the outer world is impermanent and
beings are impermanent but we cling to
this idea that things will last as
things are permanent and because of this
thinking we only think about this life
the pleasures of this life so now
somebody who doesn't really understand
karma in brief if one doesn't understand
karma then one really follows the
worldly ways to leverage the natural
superiority don't intelligence Ibaka to
reach the injured religious total Morton
richest man their innate or immutable
temperates facility from the very base
of support a Jewish support on the total
traditional identity opportunity yahoo
drama to vomit on the saudi
source Missoni sharing a vegetable for
corporal to attack the shuttle
initiation an additional storage or
massage and manova thousands do a job on
machine
general guitar one much they were just
of the double machine on the top
of RDT Annamma religious somebody needed
everybody haha already somebody
initiative the tower without digital age
of there must be the adjourn the latest
policy that authority on race this world
o muhammad o es la hora de todos santos
double a devalued a robbery
Kyra di origine images that are
published religiously Armagnac the
ingesting the children cotton the widget
enjoy thousands of images to already
smashes the robotics of airplane notice
our young another song artist one is
Richard Etheridge
and so what is the quality of the holy
dharmam is that him we recognize that
the suffering that we experienced now in
this life is something that we have
created ourselves in a previous life
the suffering that we experience now is
created by our own afflictive emotions
and the actions that we have committed
driven by these afflictive emotions if
you know that you will be able to accept
whatever suffering you experience then
you will know that this is my own karma
and through this experience of suffering
I am purifying this Karma so even though
you might suffer there might be a
problem you do understand that I am
purifying my negative karma in this way
and also if you experience some even the
slightest happiness you would recognize
this is the result of having practiced
generosity or ethical discipline now I
have to practice this again I must be
generous I must make offerings and so
forth so such a person will be able to
again continue to engage these virtuous
positive actions so they will be able to
accept and whatever difficulties they
encounter and they will be able to avoid
more causes of such suffering for the
future they will be able to create the
causes of happiness so they are able to
sustain a continuum of happiness for
future times and that is unlike someone
who just follows the worldly ways
someone who follows the worldly ways is
only concerned about this life and they
think that it all depends on my efforts
in this life and they go and study many
things and get an education and so on at
milarepa had said and the rich suffer
from their possession
send the poor suffer from the lack of
possessions everybody suffers and we
suffer them the rich friends dance
affirm because of jealousy and stingy
Ness and greed
and even even if they just lose a little
bit some it disturbs them greatly but
still they don't really want to make any
even if they could they don't really
want to make any offerings to the three
jewels and they don't really want to
help anyone in need they are like like
mice accumulating collecting many things
and then before they dime often it
happens that their relative stepchildren
for example begin to fight over the
house and over their possessions before
they dime and so then that person who
dies dies with an angry mind and that
will then plunge them into the hell room
and then the experience immeasurable
suffering so a person who recognizes all
of that would know that actually all the
difficulties I experience in this life
is something that I have done to myself
in some ways I have created those causes
of suffering and such a person will
therefore be able to abandon that for
good give up all negative actions that
lead to suffering and they will know how
to hold on to the causes of happiness
for someone who doesn't understand that
they will just disregard all of that and
not understand that their fortune that
they experienced now in this life is
only the result of love and compassion
and so basically those worldly beings
are beings who don't believe in karma
and they are constantly troubled by
thoughts of jealousy and anger and so
forth
they don't know how to sustain a
continuum of happiness for future times
and in this way they sink in suffering
so that's why Milarepa said no matter
who you are
all beings affirm the rich from their
possessions and the poor from the lack
of possessions for someone who really
understands karma and which is the
essence of the holy Dharma if no matter
what they will always be happy if they
are rich they will be happy they
recognize that this wealth is the result
of my merit and I must create more
married now and if one is poor one would
also be content and think that now I can
practice just like Milarepa they can
stay just like Milarepa and engage in
practice so for such a person who
understands kama
they can be happy in any circumstance so
that's why I mean call this the holy
Dharma the tradition of the holy Dharma
so it gets this some better name as
opposed to the worldly ways where there
is only suffering and so mainly what
makes the difference between those two
ways is once understanding or lack of
understanding of karma cause-and-effect
so therefore I ask you to continue to
think about this the benefits and the
harms and so forth again and again and
I'm hold on to those causes of half
happiness so when you understand the
workings of karma you will naturally be
able to do that
the technician
[Music]
take a break for half an hour come back
what I mean actually a million even hot
water yeah
[Music]
or worn every male or
Oh
ma
[Music]
Oh
may
all
more
Oh
or
[Music]
Oh
all right
[Music]
the
Oh
[Music]
ma
all
mom
Oh
[Music]
more
where
Oh
my mom
[Laughter]
de trabajo de Sade de Santos observar a
capitalist more es el Ojo de la Li la la
pate de Santos da da da da da ba da ba
da da Ronson Anthony the procurement of
larger images of this the stock such as
the charge biodiversity sources by the
force of the sacrum agree part regime
the subordinate Allah
Tamil Nadu desire or a relative size of
the body whatever structure Mohammed
touch on some resource on mass tourism
the imagined as a source of agility
Natalie London Symphony
dodging Ottoman Sultan is rewarded dot
en todos en nuestras De Stijl relented
madness any members of Destiny's de la
posada satin objetivo de Mendoza the
children the kokuboro the little touches
Tarasova
by the distant ocean the South Dora's
song salad or some Google Sites
portfolio touches are over and over
through solid walls
gently to particulate solder Mauro
Rosales horn burrows
saravana roudabeh Giocondo nice massage
the way the master judge the job and
what you were not doing the kind of men
are so awesome for words
you know what the Mets are important
parts of our society nobody till
Argentina Dora the delicious food I said
about the bounds of some didi sundaran
they are do the destructor magic
the ergonomics are about our age the
social center so intolerable general
knowledge pero mejor Samantha sun
goddess amaterasu authority were the
results of the song touch the origins
individual toddlerhood simply do
something don't anybody tell you on my
ears oh so tell my friends we said that
bodhichitta from them the Buddha then
appear tempura cheetah which is the
Dharma and then it says him arise from
having accomplished the true Dharma and
since that depends on knowing the
practices I shall explain their way of
Bodhisattvas so it depends on knowing
the practices so first we need to
understand the preciousness of
bodhichitta and even though we we
understand that it is very difficult to
actually cultivate that in our
mindstream
that's why the budem he made the great
effort
cultivate bodhichitta he accumulated
love in 500 impure and 500 pure
incarnations so what he accumulated is
love because he understood how precious
love is and that is what we really call
the accumulation of merit it is to
accumulate love not so it's not so
important actually what we do with the
body and speech so it's important that
we cultivate love in our mind and so in
this way as we accumulate merit we
accumulate love and compassion just like
honey bee collecting honey so this is
the Dharma practice that we do at Amma
practice is a method to cultivate
bodhichitta where it has not yet arisen
to not let it decline where it has
arisen and to further increase
bodhichitta and so these three methods
correspond to the three levels of the
past of individual liberation the
Bodhisattvas and the Vajrayana path and
so if we do not practice for a long time
and apply the practices then we are not
able to cultivate bodhichitta so how can
we cultivate bodhichitta what arises in
our mind now when you look at your own
mind what you see is that actually for
the most part constantly day and night
there are selfish thoughts in the mind
there are constantly these thoughts of
me and I and many afflictive emotions
like attachment aversion ignorant they
constantly arise in our mind I'm just
like son like dust particles in a sunray
there is just so many that constantly
fall down on us or it's just like
snowflakes falling down all the time
accumulating and then in contrast to
that and the starts of genuine love that
arise within our minds are very little
they are it is that as many thoughts of
love as there are stars in the
they light sky so love sometimes
occasionally it does arise but it goes
away very easily very quickly and so
that is because our self-grasping is
extremely strong it is very thick and
our love is very limited it is too small
and so therefore actually apply the
practices to do the Dharma practices is
what's most important to follow the
stages of the path for example in the
Secchia lineage it is referred to as the
lam day or the path and result or the
fruition an enigma for example it is
called the words of my perfect teacher
or in the cogwheel in yet we follow
campo pustule ornament of liberation and
so forth so in all of these different
stages of the path what is recognized is
that the seat of practice is bodhichitta
and so from first the seed has to be
planted into fertile soil so for that
you first need to plow the field it is
really just like plowing a field to
getting the field ready because if you
don't have the proper soil then even
though you have a seed it can easily
become spoiled and so this ploughing of
the field is preparing of the mind that
is the reflection on the four thoughts
that turn the mind the Buddha said first
you you must understand I'm suffering
when you understand suffering then you
will then this mind will arise that
wants to abandon the causes of suffering
if you want to be free from suffering
you have to eliminate the afflictive
emotions that's the origin of suffering
so the Buddha said you first must
understand suffering and secondly you
must abandon the origin of
and so this preparation and first
understanding suffering and cultivating
a sense of renunciation is like this
plowing of the field some people
actually don't like to hear about that
and they say that what all of us talk
about suffering we already have enough
suffering you just keep mentioning more
suffering more suffering but actually we
need to understand what is the root of
that suffering and what is the root of
our happiness the root of happiness is
love the seed of happiness is love and
if you don't understand that if you
don't understand suffering then such a
person will not be able to find and
create those causes of happiness at all
so this knowledge of suffering that is
like plow in the field and then
bodhichitta is to see that you planned
into the field and then your practice of
cultivating it mr. Dharma practice which
is just like pouring water into the
flour and to the seed so it grows into a
flower and that many more seeds will
come from a flower so actually all
sentient beings do possess at least some
more ochita and their mind streams even
a very tiny little animal for example
has a mind and whoever has a mind has
love so there is no one who doesn't have
any life at all Delores a person's own
legitimately dr. Hatake body so Thomas
hogging a police sergeant Perez you know
the trauma body muscle parable and
geography Mari same journey say we do
the senility Geraldine page 17 and our
portable devotee samsara charger engage
madam-ji Lord Ross Johnson since Natasha
Oh Jade yamata's mohammed el rey de
cerveza de hacer el macho's a
tachycardia je te parece
Nacirema Zozo soprano more continuity a
knockout avocado ceviche de matamoros
generation so sophisticated esta vez de
todas na na na ka achar de horas en la
cara de Tomaso saddest moment especially
salmon hegemony aguas de marzo essence a
destroyer on Mars
say para table a mucho Lord Meadows
editorial cents a day Jordan subpoena
magenta Robert Rebecca's Oh Satan
entre en todas las ramblas introduces a
eat this so allah muhammad rasul
sent the holy such as a zero reversal
mercenaries today's thomasgillam shaman
by the decisions always largest element
of G still traditional spirit of
misogyny there is dr. Jerry Jewish
Christian Studies system just a decent
range of the total no Tony Award nominee
Belarus pyramids in Okinawa is not a
battle system this is aluminum body
these are the qualities of a superiority
there is no child my little Jarrod says
Rick castle
they were the whe quality the more
appropriate of gelatine for basically
was a jealousy is such a poisonous or
that you was a top or more just reported
just in the pathology of our awesome and
so it says I shall explain the way of
Bodhisattvas so this storm what is that
from it is like it means literally them
the sons or the children of the Buddha's
and this world actually is very precious
all the files are actually children of
the of the Buddha an ordinary person
might recede is in an ordinary way
manned think that the relationship is
like like that between a father and the
son for example but it's not like that
we're speaking about the continuum of
the mind and the mind itself primal
primordial II has the awakened nature
the Buddha nature so here we are
speaking from the ultimate perspective
ultimate reality in a mind is like space
that is when the mind becomes completely
purified it is the Buddha in its natural
state so when all the temporary
defilements and impurities are cleared
away then the mind becomes all that
there is done is a space like vast
nature that is without any clouds and
when all clouds vanish in the sky the
new sky becomes without center and
boundary becomes limitless and so all of
these terms these concepts of directions
and and so forth of the center and
boundary and so forth
all of these are men
fabrications there are the creations of
our own thoughts one who experiences the
ultimate reality experiences the mind
has limitless space and that's really
the mind of all beings we all have this
space like nature actually but sentient
beings are obscured by four kinds of
obscurations and these are like the
clouds obscuring the sky temporarily but
their natural state on the basis the
ground is completely pure induction this
is referred to as the original purity
also this is explained in Mahamudra them
a pure natural state of the mind
so if our true nature would not already
beam the budem then we would have to
create a false Buddha which would not be
possible if that's not what we really
are we can't really create it but
because our true nature is actually pure
that is why the Buddha himself had said
all sentient beings are actually put us
they are only obscured by adventitious
stains so these two lines actually are
really hold on to them like my heart and
when you understand that you see that
there's actually no basis for saying
that what is a Buddhist one is not a
Buddhist and so on even an animal for
example has a mind and therefore it
possesses Buddha nation so it belongs it
is said to the family the Buddha family
everyone has everyone belongs to that
kind that family and it's kindest family
is utterly pure what makes it be impure
temporarily is this concept perception
of a self a dualistic perception of self
and other and due to that there are rise
to six afflictive emotions and when this
become purified then the mind becomes
completely unclear like space or like an
ocean so that is the meaning of the
bodies
at first or the children after Buddhas
it refers to the basis the ground that
is already the Budin that is pure and
now only temporarily beings are obscured
by adventitious stains of self-grasping
and the afflictive emotions many
thoughts in their minds and suffering
but all of that can be eliminated
because it is not their true nature the
true nature is like space Lord children
some good also had said that the mind
itself is like space and the thoughts
are like the clouds in the sky so if you
know that then actually you will develop
some courage then you cannot even not
lose heart even or lose your inner
strength even though you might have many
afflictive emotions if you know that you
will not lose your courage you know that
you are a child of the Buddha's like the
child of a king but then even if you are
the child of a king as the child of a
king you also have to engage in the
activities of a king if the child of a
king engages in criminal actions then
they will also end up in prison so we
are actually in the children of of the
Buddha's we have a second pope also
called it the family we belong to that
family
and so this is the meaning of I shall
explain the way of Bodhisattvas
belonging shaper sadhus then she wrote
Thank You Gabriel a terminology forget
all this at all somebody
Mazel Tov each other in Jerusalem so
there was a strategy or narrative
superior here you're married no
something strapless satin pajamas summit
recently or Carnegie married a soldier
or a bonanza little an abhorrence of
these are Lauren AC no Kanako my
disagreement not the masturbation some
days it was Trevor Marathi their chosen
ASEAN married
Turkish aperture celery tips president
emeritus from the Jerusalem area was
totally opposite
originally Sarang the energy sub digital
quality report on longer mumble de
Bordeaux settlement little cottage in
Parliament crown chakra kg or tallow
salty chocolate orange any proposal or a
party or a remote in my ex parte de
Paris over thirteen or area was
eternally to test Regina rallies of
United Artists remastered Solomon
Garza basically this is torture Lord
Jesus you know when tomorrow Pardo's
dasa artisan side of the circle kurta
sorbet they don't worry
no tell it star that
yeah she's totally incompatible already
I'm sure it's already number heads so it
says I shall explain the way after
Bodhisattvas so I will I will teach you
the Dharma so this is like saying all
them the gods and the humans please come
I will teach the Dharma of course I
don't have that kind of confidence of
saying that I even find it sometimes
hard to convey doll to human beings
because I'm also not someone who can
speak like a great scholar who has had a
lot of learning but then awesome I'm
also not in a place where I'm completely
without means so I still can teach the
essence actually and that is now I have
taught thirty-seven practices quite a
lot and still often I worry that I'm not
really able to really explain it
properly there's many things in there
even though I feel that I do understand
the thirty-seven practices there still
are many things in that world I feel
that I might not have a perfect
understanding especially when it comes
to the parameters of meditation and and
wisdom I feel that I don't understand it
all perfectly or can convey it perfectly
but I do understand the essential point
of it but still often I worry can I
really convey that to them but of course
if you don't ask me do you know what is
meditation and wisdom then of course I
could say
I know what it is in essence like
Milarepa for example that said that if
you really know how to practice then for
example with regard to the parameter of
meditation he said
aside from sustaining in the natural
state there is no other meditative
concentration than that so what that
basically means is to recognize all the
thoughts and afflictive emotions that
arise and to sustain a state of non
distraction it means to not allow the
mind to become controlled by ordinary
thoughts that is meditation or
meditative concentration in essence it
is to sustain a state of non distraction
and of course to explain that in more
detail I might not be able to explain
that really well but there are actually
many great commentaries on the
thirty-seven practices and those
parameters out there that I myself am
personally interested in actually
reading but unfortunately I can't open
my eyes so well so I can't really see
those scriptures so well I really want
to read and study them but I really
can't very easily but then there if you
read them then certainly you can gain
some understanding and even if I find
that even if I am NOT able to read all
of these texts I really have no doubts
when it comes when it comes to how to
actually engage in practice so about
especially the parameters of meditation
and wisdom
there are many scriptures and
commentaries and teachings out there
that are really excellent that I advise
you to read to study him and also you
have um camp attends in here who really
yeah he's like a camper as we clapped
his hands and debate a lot so and he can
give you an answer to any question so
he's an excellent person that you can
ask your questions especially on those
parameters of meditation and wisdom and
so on and then we have the other lamas
here I'm recordin bushes here and
crouppen member says here and i'm happy
llama and some all of them are here
so please advise you to really use that
opportunity and ask them questions
so I myself may not know how to explain
the thirty-seven practices all perfect
name but I think that you have an
excellent opportunity that you should
use and that is asking the questions so
um please some use this opportunity and
of course I will explain the essence of
these teachings to the best of my
ability it's like I'm preparing like a
bowl of Tampa and then I just go eat it
and then that feel that's good enough
because it fills your belly but then if
you if you want to know more about that
then and please I really encourage you
to use this excellent opportunity that
we have here and ask questions to all
the llamas that that I hear so yeah in
order break times you can do that
quarter
so God's watch how much larger
turbocharger is rather kill them at this
rate at Armitage they show knowledge and
so what I am sharing with you William
and I give these teachings is what I
have heard myself from my own gurus and
the understanding that I have came
from these teachings and then the
feeling the experience that has arisen
based on these words and that is
something I feel I can definitely pass
on it is something that I have myself
experienced if it's something that I
haven't actually experienced if I would
only follow some words then those words
were just be empty so I whatever I'm
sharing with you based on my
understanding and experience resulting
[Music]
Abani the industry but another channel
just watch Russell 3000 very distant
evil twin sister collagen treatment of
the tortoise tortoise abolish the dying
email provider regime of Aurora or Park
the water kind more needy toxicity or
die
they are content editor our little
charity from utilities to support our
economy the true courage is just initial
chapters total moody Harper Natalie -
Natalie
Jeremiah charger earnest desire and
determination the consumption by a
family or a bottom G devaluation amount
of country there are numerous particular
tourists this reachable already
typically so then being received many
Dharma teachings various places and now
it's not just actually the buddha-dharma
that we are speaking about the Buddhism
there's many teachings that we can gain
an understanding from in the world but
not from a Buddhist perspective from my
own personal understanding now and there
again this one quote by the Buddha and
the Buddha said I have taught the Dharma
in thousands of different worlds in
thousands of different worlds countless
of Miami nations appeared we return to
the wheel of Dharma and I have taught
them three scripture collections the
sutras and so forth in limitless ways so
he said that I have taught the sutras
the teachings in thousands of worlds and
while my words were distinct were
different the meaning of those words is
one and the same
and when the meaning is practiced the
essential meaning is practiced then you
have accomplished practiced all of all
of my teachings so there are many words
that have the same
meaning the Buddha himself also said
that we should analyze his teachings
just like rubbing gold we should really
analyze it so what does it mean the same
there are many words but they all have
to say meaning what is that one and the
same meaning it is the twofold
bodhichitta or the twofold truth and
within that ultimately there is the
ultimate truth so ultimately what is to
be realised is the non duality of self
and other and in order to realize that
we must first rely on the relative truth
of ultrason we must increase and develop
cultivate altruism the mind of the
relative bodhichitta which is like the
Sun that melts the ice block and when
the ice block becomes melted you will
naturally see the ultimate truth it is
like the ice becoming one with the ocean
water so this is what is to be realized
I'll automatically but it is of no
benefit if you go straight to the
ultimate and say I understand emptiness
that in itself is not beneficial
first we must connect to the relative
and then being infused with the relative
bodhichitta thus this is the way to
perfect the ultimate truth to reach the
farthest limit and to ultimate reality
so that's the single meaning of all
these many words it is to realize the
non duality of self and Adam for example
many of you engaged in the practice of a
trekking lion and in the dedication of
vajrakilaya it says may I attain the
fruit of the non-dual essence so it is
to realize the non dual nature of self
and other and when you realize that that
is sufficient that is the single meaning
of all these words and if that is
practice
and you have practiced all of the
Buddha's teachings so if you understand
that I personally I found these words
very meaningful and I really held on to
them like my own life force and actually
the essence of all different religions
or lineages is really contained within
that the ultimate fruition is really
just that the ultimate to realize the
ultimate truth now first long as one
things that all these religions and
linear chests are all separate a lot of
harm can potentially be caused and that
is the cause of all the conflict the
wars in the world and the wars between
countries wars within countries and so
forth so therefore it is very important
to always come back to this single
essence
especially now when you own a nexus on
Sunday or a single Ahmadi so lonesome
George Richert receivers read the pages
tokorozawa Tonopah Senado reach a
vocalist Ari
hola Eduardo avocados pen supported
evangelist
Danzig member leijen ova tanto tanto
shunned and rotten world we are now at
the Yellow Door assortment of language
teachers domain geometry the subject is
socially culturally neutral primo is the
path integral note so the town Chloe
jump to the summit only justino's saw
such URL not too much
dr. elena serova Dalai Lama trehala
trehala Sangeeta Bhatia's about the
melodic tone watterson contributions a
museum reportage a color such as WA
stones a delicious cherry cherries
separated after the tragic period twirl
don't turn George church's ecology
resource impatient misogyny WMD or a
social religious important Dharma which
was immortal original historical
relevance and authority Thomas of the
nationality or patron units of marriage
but I remember Tom DiCillo hopital
German Sonia Gandhi some alternative my
own picture Thomson so the only
something on some was on the page
touches or there are cognitive
[Music]
so jewelry there are telephony Dardenne
and his territory
that didn't work of literary genius
entrepreneur or the institutions of
maybe make your party systems on a
virtual surround or somewhat on the link
immediately run from drafted over the
childhood this ancient religion or
theories of course the koalas teachers
are in Germany
remember Teresa Maria warranty borrower
is no sister only but
Aurora's or Oaxaca metronome what no a
lumber Sapporo's o estado por una can be
paparazzi la muchacha means dirty tangy
or archival those are separate searches
the same reward subordinates molarity
no no marriage to signal an adorable
Chilean katsu very simular dodgy marker
pneumococcus Jeremiah Wright wrote a
subject called the bureaucracy this poor
child ends up by John Travolta and
critical ability major natural tyranny
north of where that natural phenomena
parrot society some Italians some of
them treaty is larger about the hardly
are denominated that wonder the similar
sort you know the teacher eternal desert
in a certain Horan a destructive
technology or my laureates automatically
draw not associate our Chapel or a
delicious to me somewhat Abramovich
amorous certain we come to the first
verse it says having now gained this
great ship of freedom and fortune so
difficult to find to free in order to
free yourself and others from the ocean
of cyclic existence assume this great
ship of freedom and fortune his precious
human body often people think that they
already know about that I know about the
precious human body and how difficult it
is to find then all those lists that can
count the eight on free states and so on
it's this a decent is
and then let us leave it with that
tastes like something that they already
know but this is not a correct way to
approach this so you have to really
think about it now this ship of leisure
and fortune is your precious human body
you have to really think about that so a
feeling arises and so why is it you
think for example there's actually a lot
to think about this why is it that we
call it a big ship why is it called that
what's this ocean of samsara this ocean
of samsara is very deep and it is very
vast limitless it is an ocean of
self-grasping flicked of emotions and
karma and you have the surface of the
ocean and then you have them at the
bottom of the ocean which is kind of
muddy and that is like the lower realms
of hell and the hungry spirits and so
forth so you think about the suffering
that is experienced in other realms
where does it come from and how can we
become free from suffering there is no
benefit in just freeing your body you
have to free your mind so first when you
look at a normal action there are so
many different beings in there some are
very large like a mountain and some are
very tiny atomic particles or like a
drop of water that you might pick up
very subtle there is an an endless
number of sentient beings and nowadays
as science has developed scientists can
actually tell us how many beings there
are when the Buddha was alive the Buddha
actually already told us all of that
with his omniscient wisdom the Buddha
didn't know that because he went on an
expedition as a scientist finding out
how many beings they are and but the
Buddha knew that with his omniscient
mind and nowadays scientists also
finding out and so they can apply many
of the Buddhist teachings so that's the
quality really after
the Buddhist knowledge something that
the Buddha already knew and so when we
know that first of all then our trust in
the Buddha's words will increase more
and more and so then as you keep
thinking about that you think that this
ocean of samsara is truly vast but now I
have this ship a ship can travel on the
surface of the ocean it can cross the
ocean so the ocean is an example of
those six realms of samsara non when we
studying the difficulty of finding a
precious human body there are many
different lists for example there are
the eight on free states and then they
are doing ten or like eight freedoms and
ten liters and the ten liters are
divided into two groups so there is five
that are personal and then there is five
that are outside of oneself and there's
many very detailed explanations on that
and actually if you think about all of
these very carefully that actually
becomes the best meditation then a real
feeling actually arises and that's
actually the actual meditation so when
you think about these different realms
for example we cannot see the hell realm
or the hungry spirit realm we can see
the humans and the animals coexisting
and if you keep thinking about their
suffering and so on each and every day a
real feeling arises in your mind and the
way it works is that one feeling one
kind of feeling destroys are not a kind
of feeling so the feeling to be
destroyed is the thought of this life is
a happy one as long as I'm not freezing
I am fine as long as I'm not sick I'm
happy as long as I have no financial
difficulties that's enough that's all I
want
so that's the kind of state of mind we
want to overcome by thinking about these
things thinking about
they are finding a precious human body
and the impermanence of this life death
when we think about that it is explained
to think about precious human body in
terms of numbers illustrations and
examples and so actually speaking from
my own experience having reflected on
that quite a bit myself I found that
when you think about examples actually
personally I find that no special
feeling arises within me so I basically
close the door to that reflection
because even like in other religions
like in Christianity for example it it
almost becomes hopeless in that way so
then they would say that you will go to
hell and if you go to hell you will
never be free and that's the end so if
you think about that or if you think
about from in the Buddhist sense the
long lifespan of hell it's very
exhausting for the mind to think about
that and so therefore I found it more
beneficial more useful to think about
the numbers so the numbers I found
really very beneficial for example you
you contrast the world's population of
human beings to with an end colony there
is more ants that there are human beings
and they're human beings in the world so
when you think about that you really
realize this is really that's really a
big difference so real feeling arises
and then you think about these beings
like these ends and it's animals and
when you think about them
then you realize that their feelings are
the same they're afflictive emotions are
the same they wish to be happy is the
same they wish not to suffer is also one
and the same for example when it's
snowing outside and it's getting really
cold we are going inside to stay warm
we're turning on the heater and putting
on more clothes but then all those
animals out there they
can't do that but they have the exact
same feelings they have the same
sensations of heat and cold like we
don't and how do we feel even if it's
just a little bit cold but they are out
there freezing in the cold and also
starving to death
finding no food to eat they're feeling
their experience is exactly the same as
we would experience it so when you think
about that then a real feeling will
arise within you so and that's really
precious when that arises when it really
comes from within you and then actually
when that feeling arises and then if you
begin to think about karma and what
leads to this kind of suffering and so
on then that really closes the door to
the attachment to this life so it is
basically like we have to wash like
applying soap and Zhaan have to wash our
attachment to this life
for example Kenpo Tenzin and can teach
that very excellently he holds these
classes on the four thoughts that turn
the mind over and over again and
actually that becomes the best
meditation if you really if you really
understand the fourth us to turn the
mind and then finally you will actually
feel truly inspired and motivated to
understand the ultimate truth and to
cultivate bodhichitta to become
liberated from self-grasping in order to
become free from samsara
we must become free from those six
afflictive emotions and if you are free
of self-grasping then you're already
free of them so therefore it is very
important to really reflect on the
benefits of cultivating bodhichitta and
the shortcomings of not cultivating body
chittim and so forth
because if you really understand that
clear limb the loss of not having
bodhichitta
the advantage of having bodhichitta then
you will be able to really keep your
discipline and very very clearly so when
a real feeling arises and this is how it
has happened to me and when a real
feeling arises then a certainty arises
if that feeling doesn't arise and you
just feel that oh I understand that but
it's not so beneficial actually
kampelman Soren butcher had said and a
mere understanding is just like a patch
that you put on like a like a enveloped
clothing or song a patch a patch can
just fall off again so it's not enough
to just understand something he said you
also must experience it and moreover you
must attain realization of it and what
is it when you realize that when you
realize the preciousness of a human
birth then even if you're very poor you
would think that even though I have
nothing I'm like a beggar I still have a
precious human body and that's most
precious then meaning to be accomplished
in this human life is bodhichitta that
is what I want to bring with me by any
means when I die this is what you need
to bring with you because the mind goes
on the body does not go on how's the
mineral rip I had said that it's not
your body that goes to hell it's just
your mind that goes to hell and actually
these words are very meaningful
so therefore what this is really saying
here is is please don't bring with you
the afflictive emotions bring this youm
loving-kindness love so this is how to
use this ship to cross the vast and deep
ocean of samsara
so this ship is your precious human
podium it is like a precious jewel that
is putting the precious jewel really is
bodhichitta that's the jewel to be found
in this life so if you think about this
over and over again you will feel quite
amazed by the teachings of them of
boredom the view and the meditation the
practice that that the Buddha gave and
so by reflecting in this way I myself
have given rise to that feeling and
because I myself have experienced it I
am passing that on to my Dhamma friends
when I was very young I was actually
also not really able to cultivate
perfect faith in all of this and only
later after either 50 or so I began to
think about it over and over again and
throughout my life finally I really AM
found that a real I'm feeling an
understanding of this so it's very
important to approach the practice in
this way to somebody the dry to dr.
rocha majority to the more intense on GG
OMG that song means I'm and then it is
explained the difficulty of finding a
human body a precious human body is
explained in terms of its causes and
regarding that Lord chicken some gun had
said if you only observe a single vow
that leads to the attainment of Nirvana
and so actually it is said that the
attainment of a precious human body is
the result of observing ethical
discipline so for example if you just
keep only that vow of not engaging in
sexual
conduct over and over again then again
and again you will find a precious human
body a perfect precious human body and
ultimately it becomes the cause of
attaining enlightenment and so in terms
of the cause that makes it so difficult
to obtain a precious human body the
actual cause is really love and
compassion but then with that as a basis
if you observe only a single vow that
can become the cause of Nirvana
as noted in Songun had said so today I
am asked you to reflect upon that and
the bodhicaryavatara
Shanti Devas dedication is really
related to these teachings so we will
dedicate by reciting the dedication of
shantideva also because it's the first
day of the new year and we stop the
teachings here on page 61 is there
anyone who needs a book
page 61 by all the virtue I have now
amassed by composition of this book
which speaks of entry to the Bodhisattva
way may every being tread the path to
Buddhahood may beings everywhere who
suffer torment in their minds and bodies
have by virtue of my marriage joy and
happiness in boundless measure as long
as they may linger in samsara may their
present joy know no decline and may they
taste of unsurpassed the attitude in
constant and unbroken continuity
throughout the spheres and regions of
the world in hellish States wherever
they may be made beings federate their
tormented tastes of bliss and peace of
Sukhavati may those caught in the
freezing ice be warmed and from the
massing clouds of Bodhisattvas prayers
may torrents rain in boundless streams
to cool those burning in infernal fires
may forests where the leaves are blades
and swords and become sweet groves and
pleasant woodland
glaze and may the trees of miracles
appear supplanting goes upon the hill of
shamili and may the very pit so he'll be
sweet with fragrant pools all perfumed
with the scent of lotuses be lovely with
the cries of Swan and goose and
waterfowl so pleasing to the air may
fiery coals turn into heaps of jewels
the burning ground become a crystal
floor the crushing hills celestial
abodes adorned with offerings the
dwelling place of Buddhas may the hail
of lava fiery stones and weapons
henceforth become a rain of blossoms may
those whose hell it is to fight and
wound be turned to lovers offering their
flowers and those engulfed and fiery fat
irani
their flesh destroyed their bones
bleached white as kwinda flowers may
they throw all my merit strengths have
godlike forms and sport with goddesses
and man dakinis peaceful streams what
fear is that they'll ask that grips the
henchmen of the deadly Lord the
frightful vultures and the carrion crows
what noble strength is it that brings us
joy and drives away our dreadful night
and looking skyward they will see the
shining form of vajrapani and then may
their sins be quenched in joy and made
to him and when they see the seething
love a flood of hell extinguished in a
rain of blossoms drenched in scented
water at once fulfilled and blessed
there'll ask how can this be
and thus the denizens of Hell will see
the one who holds the Lotus friends
throw away your fears and quickly gather
here for who is it who comes to banish
strength this youth with bound up
gleaming hair this loving Bodhisattva
saving and protecting every being whose
power relieves all pain increasing joy
do you see the splendor of his house
that echoes the praises of a thousand
goddesses the hundred gods who lay their
diadem's before his lotus feet the rain
of flowers falling on his head his eyes
moist with compassion thus may those in
hell cry out unseen Manchu kosha and
likewise when through these my roots of
virtue they see the joyful clouds let
fall their cooling center drain their
obscurations cleansed by Bodhisattvas
like Samantabhadra may all those
languishing in hell come now to perfect
happiness and may this stooping animals
be freed from fear of being preyed upon
each other's food in May the famished
spirits have such joy as those who dwell
within the northern continent and may
they be replete and satisfied by streams
of milk that pour from noble of alok
ITA's hand men bathing in it maid
be refreshed and cooled and may the
blind receive their sight and may the
Deaf begin to hear and women near their
time bring forth like maya devi free
from any pain and may the naked now be
clothed and all the hungry eat their
fill and may those parts with thirst
receive pure waters and delicious drink
may the poor and destitute find wealth
the Haggard and the careworn joy may
confidence relieve those in despair and
bring them steadfastness and every
excellence may every being ailing with
disease be free at once from every
melody may all the sickness that
afflicts the living be instantly and
permanently healed may those who go in
dread have no more fear make captives be
Unchained and now set free and may the
weak receive their strength may living
beings help each other in kindness may
travelers upon the road find happiness
no matter where they go and may they
gain without the need of toil the goals
on which they set their hearts may those
who put to sea and boat or ship contain
the ports that they desire and may they
safely come to shore and sweet reunion
with
kith and kin may those who lose their
way and stray in misery find fellow
travelers and safe from the threat of
thieves and savage beasts be tireless
and their journey light may children and
the old the weak protector less
bewildered in the wild and pathless
wastes and in those whose minds are dolt
in all who are insane have a pure
celestial beings as their guardians may
all attain the human state and be
possessed of wisdom faith and love with
perfect livelihood and sustenance may
they have mindfulness throughout their
lives may everyone have unrestricted
well just like the Treasury of space
enjoying it according to their wish
without a trace of harm or emnity may
beings destitute of splendour become
magnificent and bright and those worn
down by toil and drudgery acquire great
beauty and perfection may all the women
in this world attain the strength of
masculinity and may the lowly come to
excellence to proud and haughty
lose their arrogance and thus by all
this merit I have gained may every being
leaving none aside abandon all evil ways
embracing goodness now and evermore from
bodhichitta may they never separate and
constantly engage in Bodhisattva deeds
be accepted as disciples by the Buddha's
and turned aside from what is Mara's
work and made these beings each and
every one enjoy an unsurpassed longevity
living always in contentment may the
very name of death be strange to them on
every side in all the ten directions may
groves of wish-fulfilling trees abound
resounding with the sweetness of the
teachings spoken by the Buddha's and
their Bodhisattva children and may the
earth be wholesome everywhere free from
boulders cliffs and chasms flat and even
like a level palm and smooth like lapis
lazuli and for many circles of disciples
may multitudes of Bodhisattvas rise in
every land adorning them with every
excellence from birdsong in the sighing
of the trees from shafts of light and
from the sky itself may living beings
each and every one perceive the constant
sound of Dharma may they come into the
presence of the Buddha's and meet with
Bodhisattvas offsprings of the same with
clouds of offerings unbounded may the
teachers of the world be worshipped may
kindly spirits bring the rains on time
for a harvest to be rich and plentiful
may princes rule according to the truth
and may the world be blessed with all
prosperity may medicines be strong and
full of virtue may healing spells be
chanted with success may spirits of the
air that feed on flesh be kind their
minds and viewed with pity and let no
being ever suffer pain let them now
they're al noor language never doing
evil may they have no fear nor suffer
insults and may their minds be ever free
from sorrow in monasteries temples and
the like may reading and reciting widely
flourish may harmony prevail among the
Sangha and may its purpose be all
fulfilled may ordained monks intent upon
the practice find perfect places for
retreat in solitude abandon every
vagrant thought and meditate with
trained and serviceable minds we may
nuns have all their wants supply mejora
lane vindictiveness be strange to them
let all who have embraced monastic life
hold the pure and unimpaired observance
may they feel regret when discipline is
broken and always may they strive to
cleanse away their faults may they thus
obtain a fortunate rebirth wherein to
undertake unfailing discipline and may
the wise and learn it be revered and
always be sustained by offerings with
minds suffused with purity may their
renown spread far and wide may be eggs
never languish in the lower realms may
pain and hardship be unknown to them and
joy and more than godlike strength and
beauty may Buddhahood for them be
swiftly gained again and yet again may
sentient beings make offerings to all
the Buddha's and with Buddha's
unimaginably may they enjoy undimmed and
constant happiness may all the
Bodhisattvas now fulfill their high
intention for the sake of beings and
sentient beings likewise now receive the
good at the food
have in store for them and may the our
Hudson pratico Buddha's at length attain
their perfect happiness in may I also
threw mud juice trees kindness reached
the ground of perfect joy and throughout
the stream of all my life's embrace
monastic ordination thus may I abide
sustained by simple ordinary fare and in
every life obtain a dwelling place and
perfect solitude
whenever I desire to gaze on him or put
to him the slightest question may I
behold the unobstructed vision of bonjou
kosha my protector to satisfy the needs
of beings dwelled in the ten directions
to the margins of the sky may I reflect
in every deed the perfect exploits of
manjushri and now as long as face
indoors as long as there are beings to
be found may I continue likewise to
remain to drive away the sorrows of the
world the pain and sorrow of all
enduring beings may they ripen wholly on
myself and may the virtuous company of
Bodhisattvas bring about the happiness
of beings may the doctrine only remedy
for suffering the source of every bliss
and happiness be nurtured and upheld
with reverence and throughout a vast
continuous of time endure and now -
Manju boscia
I prostrate whose kindness is the
wellspring of my good intent and to my
virtuous friends I also bow whose
inspiration gave me strength to grow
[Applause]
so now in our the yellow prayer book the
long life prayers on page 22 for this
realm encircled by snow-covered
mountains you are the source of all
benefit and happiness tensing down so
lord chenna mystic may you remain
steadfast until the end of samsara
may you the precious guru who
accomplishes everything spontaneously
live long holder of the teachings of
Lord dregg oompa Great Lord of the three
jewels through the power of your
peerless compassion and holy Dharma's
peace and light you bring relief to
beings may your life be long the one
known in the noble and as audio devi'
emanated into the gar clan of eastern
Tibet as to Dinka a hard son of dict in
Boonville may the life of the glorious
carson remain steadfast for a hundred
yards crown of the shockula's kind
friend to strangers the seventeen great
pandita's talofa Naropa Marva vanilla
red from OVA kicked in sanguine
Linnea chairs please the stone good
fortune and auspiciousness protector
Amadeus transcendent Lord who reigns
supreme life everlasting stable and
unchanging man who diverts fun untimely
death anyone who merely here is your
name or thinks of you please bestow good
fortune and auspiciousness living
austerely in the higher trainings of
discipline full of compassion that is
the glory of those to be tamed and avoid
of all grasping never parting from Maha
mudra is natural state needn't and bade
Nima some of the teachings may your life
remain firm may the teachings of the
great Dragoon para industry master of
interdependence omniscient Lord of
Dharma who has seen all knowable things
be upheld until the end of cyclic
existence through study practice hearing
contemplation and meditation your
thousand arms are the thousand wheel
turning Kings your thousand eyes are the
thousand buddhas of this fortunate
your love is boundless like space I
supplicate to the Bodhisattva Chen
rising
[Music]
labor
Oh
me
yeah
d
grabbed your
No
take care
Dave
Jones here
whoa
my
get your G hey Barney
Hey
I'm gonna
[Music]